# CprE 494 Reflections

## General Education Reflection

After I finish my undergraduate degree, I plan to attend graduate school to pursue a PhD in computer engineering with a focus on hardware architecture. My ultimate goal is to work in industry research for a leading technology company. There is not one path I am set on taking at this point. I am considering finding a place in research and development at companies such as Microsoft Research or Google X. 

My general education courses at Iowa State where an important part of my education. To me, their primary benefit was the perspective they gave me that was different from the rest of my engineering classes. For example, in my introduction to 3D modeling class I learned to take modeling as composing images, not manipulating a set of vertices and meshes. I think seeing things from a perspective outside engineering will allow me to produce more quality work by knowing how things will be seen by end users.

They have also helped me to be a more well-rounded person. I think that going deep into your field of interest and pursuing your passion is important but sometimes it's nice to have a little bit of variety in life, and my general education courses gave that to me during my time at Iowa State. I learned about logical reasoning from the perspective of philosophy, the history of American Rock’ n’ Roll music, and of course how to create virtual photos with 3D modelling software. This variety keeps things interesting.

In addition, having these general education courses provided a nice break from my engineering career. I absolutely love my field of study but it was nice to have a break and spend 3 hours in a lab where the only requirement is to make 3D models of my favorite video game props and such. These breaks in my education helped keep me sane in times when I had multiple large projects going on with fellowship applications due. 


## Cumulative Reflection
I will always look back on my time with Iowa State fondly. During my time, here, I have learned many languages, including C, Python, and Java. I have learned how logic gates work and how they can be used to build state machines. I have learned how to build a pipelined MIPS processor and how to write assembly code for it. I think most importantly – I have learned how to be a professional engineer.

To me, engineering is synonymous with problem solving. Engineers take on large complicated tasks and design solutions to them. These problems can be to design a bridge to hold the weight of so many cars; or to build a software system that can support so many clients. My experience at Iowa State has taught me to be a problem solver in computer engineering – and I feel I am ready to take on the complicated real world problems in my field.

In addition, Iowa State has taught me to be a team player. In today’s society – perhaps more so in software and computer engineering – team work is paramount to the success of any project. In many courses, I have had the chance to work on group projects; such as in ComS 309, where myself and my team of friends worked on a semester long project developing a web service for genetic algorithm optimization of product design.

I think the most valuable resources Iowa State has to offer is its faculty. During my freshman year, I had the chance to work with Dr. Baskar Ganapthysubramanian on a semester long research project. After that semester he hired me as an undergraduate research assistant in his lab, where I have been working since. My time with his lab has taught me so many things, and his help as a mentor in my research and advice for post graduate opportunities is a large factor in why I chose to continue my academic career by pursuing a PhD.

I think one of my defining traits is my unrelenting curiosity to know how things work. It is what drove me to learn how to program computers 10 years ago. It is the reason I plan to continue to learn new things my whole life. For example, I recently started learning a new systems level language called Rust. It is an interesting language because it forces thread safety in its syntax and variable rules so that unsafe code simply won’t compile. In addition, it ensures that there is almost no possibility of a null pointer being dereferenced. Keeping up to date on the tools and languages that are available is something I think will make me a valuable contributor for my whole career.

I wouldn’t change a whole lot about my undergraduate career. I had a great four years, some awesome internships, research opportunities and class projects. I made great friends and learned a lot about so many topics. And I have set myself up for my future goals.


## Ethics Essay
### Purpose for Code of Ethics
During our education, we as engineers will learn about and how to do many things. Many of these skills may lead to great discovery, but can also lead to great harm. This is where a code of ethics comes in. Following ethical guidelines will keep us from causing harm. Specifically, the IEEE code of ethics tells us, in general, to accept responsibility in making decisions that may affect well-being of others, to not cut corners, take bribes, and to be honest.
## How I make decisions
To me, I see in most situations involving ethical dilemmas a pretty clear answer of what *should* be done. I strongly believe in taking full responsibility if a mistake was made due to my actions, and will be sure to be honest about everything, too. There are some grey areas, though. One example that comes to mind is: if you’re a friend of another employee at your workplace who is having drug / alcohol problems, should you report that? Thankfully I’ve never been faced with a decision like that. The clear un-emotional ethical choice would be to definitely report it, but in reality it’s never that simple. From my point of view, I would try to evaluate how much of a risk it would be to others’ well-being to keep it a secret. If the person in question could potentially harm someone or themselves, I would probably report it.
## Small group case study
Our small group analyzed the Volkswagen debacle where VW was caught using software to trick gas emission tests, and had to recall 480,000+ cars. During our discussion, we all seemed to be fairly in agreement. We all agreed that in this case it is clear that VW screwed up and needs to be reprimanded, but the main problem is who? In this situation it is difficult to discovery the person (or group of people) who are primarily responsible for the creation of the cheating software. For example: it could have been a project manager who had management weighing down on him to meet expectations “at all costs”. In this case, that project manager would be at fault. It could also be the software engineers, or even upper management. Point is, it could have happened anywhere in the chain of management, and the sad truth is that VW (I.e. the executives) can lie about it. They could, if guilty, find a scape-goat of sorts to blame it on. Clearly the ethical decision is to come clean about who’s decision it was to create the software, but sadly they may not make that choice.
## Virtues
For this situation I would first look at integrity. In the face of tough demands / constraints, it is important we maintain integrity – not cut corners – in completing our task (unlike the VW crew). Honesty also comes to mind because clearly VW was purposefully being dishonest about the gas mileage ratings they were reporting. The last one would be responsibility. The point in VW’s structure where this decision was made should be taking responsibility for their actions.
